W-19664213 add api server instances (#624)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/create-instance-task-agent-tool.adoc

= Adding a Flex Gateway Agent or Tool Instance
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:product: flex

:page-aliases: create-instance-task-a2a.adoc, create-instance-task-mcp.adoc

include::partial$task-add-api-instance.adoc[tags=flex-agent-tool-intro]

> 

Reviewer: This topic needs an intro that summarizes the information in the topic.

> The following diagram shows the instance's upstream and downstream configurations. In this configuration, the downstream service is the service making requests that are completed by the upstream service. These terms represent the direction of dependency, not the direction of information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This diagram shows the upstream and downstream configurations of the instance. In this configuration, the downstream service is the service making requests that are completed by the upstream service. These terms represent the direction of dependency, not the direction of information.
```

image:server-upstream-downstream-config.png[The instance is deployed on a gateway between the upstream and downstream configuration]

[[add-server]]
== Add a New Agent or Tool Instance

. Navigate to *Anypoint Platform* > *API Manager*.
. Click *Agent and Tool Instances*.

> . Click *Add* and select your desired protocol: *Agent*, *MCP Server*, or *LLM*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Add* and select the protocol: *Agent*, *MCP Server*, or *LLM*.
```

> . Select a Flex Gateway to deploy the server instance to from the list under *Select a gateway*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select a Flex Gateway to deploy the server instance to from *Select a gateway*.
```

+
[NOTE]
--
If you don't see a Flex Gateway listed, or you see a Flex Gateway but its status is *Not Running*,
See xref:gateway::flex-install.adoc[Install Flex Gateway] and xref:gateway::flex-conn-reg-run.adoc[Register and Run in Connected Mode] for more information.
--
. Click *Next*.

> . Select an instance from the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select an instance:
```

> * *Select asset from Exchange*: If you have a agent or tool asset shared with you through Exchange that you want to manage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Select asset from Exchange*: To manage an agent or tool asset shared through Exchange.
```

> ** Select the asset from the list under *Select asset*. You can search for a specific asset if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Select the asset from *Select asset*. You can also search for an asset.
```

> * *Create a new asset*: If you want to create a new asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Create a new asset*: To create a new asset.
```

> ** Enter a *Asset name* for the new asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** In *Asset name*, enter a name for the new asset.
```

+

> NOTE: Your asset is published to in Exchange after it's protected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Your asset is published to Exchange after it's protected.
```

. Click *Next*.

. Configure the downstream configuration settings:
+
.Managed Flex Gateway
[%collapsible]
====
include::partial$api-configuration-tables.adoc[tags=flex-downstream-agent-tool-managed]
====
+
.Self-Managed Flex Gateway (Connected Mode)
[%collapsible]
====
include::partial$api-configuration-tables.adoc[tags=flex-downstream-agent-tool-self-managed]
====
. Click *Next*.
. Configure one of the server upstream configurations:
+
include::partial$api-configuration-tables.adoc[tags=flex-upstream-agent-tool]

. Click *Next*.
+
include::partial$task-add-api-instance.adoc[tags=last-steps]

[[agent-network-projects]]
== Edit Agent Network Project Instances

> Some instances in *Agent and Tool instances* might have been created by supplying YAML in an agent network project. For instances created with YAML, the YAMl is treated as the source of truth. If you edit the instance in API Manager, such as add policies, the changes are reverted to the YAML when the instance is redeployed from the agent network project.

Reviewer: Add a link to the ACB doc:
xref:anypoint-code-builder::af-define-your-agent-network-specification.adoc
